Information Package Definition: _Annotations_
=======================

## General scope of the information package

Several processes in collection management and research require the ability to add information or knowledge generated by a person or machine to a specific set of fields whose provenance must be tracked.
The Annotations Information Package bundles the concepts for functional components that might be implemented implicitly in core modules or in stand-aline service modules.

Definition: Annotations are a way to convey information about a resource or associations between resources. They are assertions of data/information based on some evidence provided by a person/machine at a place and time. Independent from their validation and protential validity, assertions need to be structured and tracked as they represent a certain viewpoints and interpretations of information that might lead to new knowledge. Even a falsification of assertions gains new knowledge or approves existing knowledge. Therefore, annotations and related metadata need to be stored for transparently documenting the prevenance of assertions, interpretations and the consequent actions.

## Reason(s) for being standalone

A lot of data needs can be considered as interpretations from a (personal or scientific) context, because in most cases there is no 100% truth or 100% falsity. Therefore, annotations need to be designed as a standalone concept and applied in a harmonized and standardized manner. However, this has no implication that the software implementation of annotations needs be in a standalone piece of software.

## Which information should be accommodated in this information package?

* all information on annotations described in the published concept see https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0076093 
* Information on the processes (e.g. validation / falsification) and related actions related to an annotation (e.g. accept / reject / ignore annotations in order to append, update (incl. linking) the records)
* All information to build trust (e.g. related information on the feedback sent back to the external sender of an annotation)

## Which information does __not__ live in this information package?

* snapshots of the versions of annotated entities!
* disambiguation of the annotating agents

## Related high-level use cases
This Information Package has conceptual implications at least the for following information packages and functional components:
* [Determinations](../component_descriptions/determinations.md) within the Information Package on [Collection Objects](/collection_objects.md)
* Locality/Georeferences of the [collecting events](../component_descriptions/collecting_event.md) within Information Packages on [Collection Objects](/collection_objects.md) and [Geography](/geography.md)
* The conceptual distinction between (potentially exernally managed) annotating agents and the annotations on agents used and managed internally (e.g. collectors, determiners names)
* Taxonomy (classification updates, nomenclatural changes…)
* Biological relationship assertions (e.g. host-parasite, )
* Assertions of different kinds (e.g. phenotypic characteristics, environmental annotations )
